# Latest-Optimum-School-System
This is the latest school management system. Available for all type of schools. will work on Phone, Laptop, Tabs, monitors - any screen size. It is available with 100% source code.
This is the latest school management system. Available for all type of schools. will work on Phone, Laptop, Tabs, monitors - any screen size. It is available with 100% source code. The features are listed below:  INSTALLATION   Upload the downloaded zip file to your server in the public_html directory. Extract the zip file. Create a new database from your server mysql. Create user to the database and link the database to the user. Open the file database.php from the directory yourfolder/application/config/database.php. Fill up this information with your database hostname, database username, database password, database name respectively which you have created in the previous step. Now from server phpmyadmin go to your database. Select import and choose the file install.sql located in yourfolder/database/blank_db.sql (demo_db.sql for demo database) And you are ready to go now to browse the application  Default admin credentials Email: admin@admin.com Password: admin  ADMIN PANEL Managing User accounts (teacher, student, parent) Managing classes, subjects Managing exam, grades Managing exam marks Managing Loan Information Managing  Computer Based Test (CBT) Sending exam marks via sms Managing students attendance Managing accounting, income and expenses Managing school events Managing Teachers Managing Libratrian Managing Accountant Manage Circular Manage Task Managing Parents Managing Alumni Managing Academic Sysllabus Managing Helpful Links Managing Help Desk Managing Front-End Information Managing School Session Attendance  Reports Managing Staff ID Cards Records management. Notification board management. Management relationships between different type of users. Online Payment acceptance of FEE. Section Management. Reports generator. SMS Alerts. Managing Hostel Manager Managing library, dormitory, transport Messaging between other users Managing system settings (general, sms, language) Managing Media Subject management. Class management. Student payments management. Student behaviour management. Payments Overview. Subjects and assignments management. Fees management. Student assignment results management. Student search. Overdue students list. Student management. Student-Teacher interaction. And many more …  TEACHERS Manage Students homework. Assign homework. Share homework on social networking sites (facebook). Manage classes. Manage Student Report. Generate Remarks on Student Reports. Generate Student Attendence. Subject management. Loan Application Class management. Student behaviour management. Subjects and assignments management. Student assignment results management. Student search. Student management. Student-Teacher interaction. Managing Helpful Links Managing Media Assignments Attendance  Provide Daily Quotes Holidays Studennts Study Materials Message  Noticeboard Transportations And many more…   STUDENT PANEL Get class Routine  Attempt Online Exam View Online Exam Result Get Exam Marks Message  View Noticeboard  Transportatio Receive SMS Get attendance status Get study materials / files from teacher Get payment invoice,  Pay Online Communicate with teacher Managing Media accounts View Event Schedule, Notice and Holidays Get Helpful Links View Daily Quotes Contact Help Desks And many more ….  PARENT PANEL View Children Marks View Children Class Routine Make payment View Payment Invoice Message Admin Message Teachers View Received Messkages Checkin kids progress. Parent-Teacher interaction. Get alerts from School Administration or Teachers. View events Noticeborad  Todays Thought News  Helpful Links Help Desk Receive SMS And many more …  LIBRARIAN Add books Update books Record Lost Books Generate Reports on Books Subject Management. Loan Application Student Search. Student Management. Student-Librarian Interaction. View Helpful Links View Media Holidays Studennts Study Materials Message  Transportations Noticeboard View Notification  And many more ….  ACCOUNTANTS Create Student Payments Students Payment Expenses Expenses Category Vew all Accountants Loan Application Todays Thought News Holidays Message k Noticeboard And many more ….   HOSTEL MANAGER ViewAll Hostel Managers Manage Hostels Loan Application Todays Thought News Holidays Message  Noticeboard And many more ….        …………………………………………………………………………………………………       ADMIN PANEL DASHBORD       ………………………………………………………………………………………………… Total number of students, teachers, librarian, accountants, hostel manager, alumni, parents and attendance of students for that day at a glance, Dashboard also holds a calendar for showing events, charts for various percentages of teachers, parents, students attendance, grades, students performances, etc.  MANAGING SESSION From navigation go to manage session Add / edit / delete  MANAGING ACADEMIC SYLLABUS From navigation go to manage academic syllabus Add / edit / delete  MANAGING MEDIA From navigation go to manage media Add / edit / delete  MANAGING STUDENTS Admit Students From navigation, go to students > admit students Fill up the necessary information Save student  Admit Bulk Students From navigation, go to student > admit bulk student Download the blank Excel file Fill up the information Select class Upload the filled up Excel file Save  Student Information  From navigation go to student > student information  Here you can see the students class wise If a class has sections then you can also browse the students as per class sections  Student mark sheets From navigation go to student > student mark sheet Here you can see all the students marks class wise If  the class has sections then you can also see them along with class  MANAGING TEACHERS From navigation go to teacher  Here you can see the list of teachers of your school in a tabular form To add a new teacher, click the top right button named add new teacher and fill up the information and save For editing or deleting a teacher information click the action button assigned to each entry of the table. That will bring two options for editing and deleting. Click on the required action editing and deleting    MANAGING ACCOUNTANTS From navigation go to accountant  Here you can see the list of accountants of your school in a tabular form To add a new accountant, click the top right button named add new accountant and fill up the information and save For editing or deleting a teacher information click the action button assigned to each entry of the table. That will bring two options for editing and deleting. Click on the required action editing and deleting   MANAGING LIBRARIANS From navigation go to librarian  Here you can see the list of librarians of your school in a tabular form To add a new librarian, click the top right button named add new librarian and fill up the information and save For editing or deleting a teacher information click the action button assigned to each entry of the table. That will bring two options for editing and deleting. Click on the required action editing and deleting   MANAGING HOSTEL MANAGERS From navigation go to hostel manager  Here you can see the list of hostel managers of your school in a tabular form To add a new hostel manager, click the top right button named add new hostel manager and fill up the information and save For editing or deleting a teacher information click the action button assigned to each entry of the table. That will bring two options for editing and deleting. Click on the required action editing and deleting    MANAGING ALUMNI From navigation go to alumni  Here you can see the list of alumni of your school in a tabular form To add a new alumni, click the top right button named add new alumni and fill up the information and save For editing or deleting a teacher information click the action button assigned to each entry of the table. That will bring two options for editing and deleting. Click on the required action editing and deleting   MANAGING PARENTS From navigation go to parents Here you can see the list of parents of the students of your school in a tabular form To add a new parent, click the top right button named add new parent and fill up the information and save For editing or deleting a parent information click the action button assigned to each entry of the table. That will bring two options for editing and deleting. Click on the required action for editing and deleting   MANAGING CLASSES From navigation go to > manage sections Add new class section for a class and assign  teacher for each of them View the class sections in a tabular form class wise Edit and delete class section information  MANAGING CLASS SECTION From navigation go to class > manage sections Add new class section for a class and assign a teacher for each of them View the class sections in a tabular for class wise Edit and deklete class section information  MANAGING SUBJECTS From navigation go to subject If you have already added classes then under this you will see a list of the classes added. If you have not created classes, please create class first Here you can see the subjects class wise Add or edit or delete subjects  MANAGING CLASS ROUTINE From navigation go to class routine View all the class routines in accordion  Add class routine Click on the subject name on routine to edit and delete  MANAGING DIALY STUDENT’S ATTENDENCE From navigation go to daily attendance  Select the date and class and click manage attendance That will bring up the students name and attendance information in a tabular form To update the attendance status or for taking the attendance for that particular date of that particular class which you have selected earlier, click the button named update attendance Put the status for all at once and click save changes    MANAGING EXAMS Exam list From navigation, go to exam > exam list Add an exam for all Edit and delete exam  Exam grade From navigation go to exam > exam grades Add exam grades as per the requirements of your institution Edit or delete exam grades  Manage exam marks From navigation go to > manage marks Select exam, class and subject and click manage marks for changing or updating marks That will bring up the form for updating the students marks for that particular subject Enter the marks and click update  Sending exam marks by SMS From navigation go to exam > send mark by SMS Select exakm and class and receive (students/parent) Click the button named send mark via SMS That will send SMS with the marks for that exam you have selected if a SMS service is already activated  MANAGING PAYMENTS From navigation go to payment Add invoice and take manual payment multiple time under the same invoice If a payment is due, then an option will be there for taking the payment in the action button of the table that contains the list of all the invoices with the basic information. Edit or delete invoice  LOAN MANAGEMENT  From navigation go to loan application See all the applied loans Click on apply loan Fill forms to apply Wait for loan approval  COMPUTER BASED TEST (CBT) From navigation, go to Manage CBT Click on Add Exam Set Class, Exam Time, Exam Duration, Subject, Question Count and Session  Click on continue to Add Questions Click on List Exams to View Exams Click on View Result to View Exams Scores   ACCOUNTING Incomes From navigation, go to accounting > incomes Here you can see all the incomes for your school that means students fee in a tabular form with their payment time and amount  EXPENSES From navigation, go to accounting  > expenses Add expenses for the school Edit or delete them  GENERATING  STAFF IDCARD Teacher, librarian, accounant, hostel manager From navigation, go to staff > ID CARD Here you can you will see a button asking you to click generate ID CARD  EXPENSE CATEGORY From navigation, go to accounting  > expense category Add expense category Edit or delete them  MANAGING BOOKS From navigation go to library Add books  Edit or delete them  MANAGING TRANSPORT From navigation go to transport Add transport information  Edit or delete them  MANAGING DORMITORY From navigation go to dormitory Add / edit / delete  MANAGING ASSIGNMENT From navigation go to assignment Add / edit / delete  MANAGING HOLIDAYS From navigation go to holiday Add / edit / delete  MANAGING TODAY’S THOUGHT From navigation go to today’s thought  Add / edit / delete  MANAGING CIRCULAR From navigation go to circular Add / edit / delete  MANAGING SCHOOL CLUBS From navigation go to school club Add / edit / delete  MANAGING TASK From navigation go to task manager Add / edit / delete  MANAGING HELPFUL LINK From navigation go to Helpful Links Add / edit / delete  MANAGING ENQUIRY From navigation go to enquiry Add / edit / delete  MANAGING ENQUIRY CATEFORY From navigation go to enquiry category Add / edit / delete  MANAGING HELP DESK From navigation go to task Helpdesk Add / edit / delete  NOTICEBOARD From navigation go to notice board  Add / edit / delete them For sending the notice to all as SMS, yes while creating the notice This will send SMS to all the users about that notice  PRIVATE MESSAGING From navigation, go to message Admin can send message to all users For sending  message, select user and type the message and click send You can also see all the message sent to you or sent from you  SYSTEM SETTINGS From navigation go to settings > general settings  You can change basic system settings here and also can select language You can also upload logo from here  THEME SETTINGS From navigation go to setting > general settings On the right of the page there is a panel named theme settings You find several skin options for you application  Select you desire one to make changes   SMS SETTINGS From navigation go to settings > sms settings Here you will find 2 SMS services, one  is Clickatell and another is Twilio You have to activate a service first  Then put the necessary information for a service Visit https://www.twilio.com/user/acount/settings/international /sms  LANGUAGE SETTINGS From navigation go to setting > language settings Change phrase or add new phrase for a particular language  Add new language   MANAGE BANNER SETTINGS From navigation go to setting > banner settings Add / edit / delete  MANAGE FRONT END SETTINGS From navigation go to setting > front end settings Add / edit / delete  MANAGE NEWS SETTINGS From navigation go to setting > news settings Add / edit / delete  ACCOUNT SETTINGS From navigation go to account Change basic account information Update your password Change profile image  ……………………………………………………………………………………………….. TEACHER PANEL DASHBOARD ………………………………………………………………………………………………. Total number of students, parents and attendance of students for that day at a glance Dashboard also holds a calendar for showing events.  MANAGING STUDENTS Admit students  From navigation go to student > admit student Fill up the necessary information  Save student  Student information  From navigation go to student > student information  Here you can see the student class wise If a class has sections then you can also browse the students as per class sections  Student mark sheets From navigation go to student > student mark sheet Here you can see all the students marks class wise If the class has sections then you can also see them along with class  MANAGING DAILY STUDENT’S ATTENDANCE  From navigation go to daily attendance  Select the date and class and click mange attendance That will bring up the students name and attendance information in a tabular form To update the attendance status or for taking the attendance for that particular date of that particular class which you have selected earlier, click the button named update attendance Put the status for all at once and click save changes  MANAGING DAILY STUDENT’S ATTENDANCE From navigation go to daily attendance  Select the date and class and click manage attendance  That will bring up the students name and attendance information in a tabular form To update the attendance status or for taking the attendance for that particular date of that particular class which you have selected earlier, click the button named update attendance  Put the status for all at once and click save changes   MANAGING ASSIGNMENT From navigation go to assignment  That will bring up the assignemnt page in a tabular form, you can click on add assignment on left corner of the page to add assignment.  MANAGING CLASSES From navigation go to > manage sections Add new class section for a class and assign  teacher for each of them View the class sections in a tabular form class wise Edit and delete class section information  MANAGING CLASS SECTION From navigation go to class > manage sections Add new class section for a class and assign a teacher for each of them View the class sections in a tabular for class wise Edit and deklete class section information  MANAGING SUBJECTS From navigation go to subject If you have already added classes then under this you will see a list of the classes added. If you have not created classes, please create class first Here you can see the subjects class wise Add or edit or delete subjects  MANAGING CLASS ROUTINE From navigation go to class routine View all the class routines in accordion  Add class routine Click on the subject name on routine to edit and delete  MANAGING DIALY STUDENT’S ATTENDENCE From navigation go to daily attendance  Select the date and class and click manage attendance That will bring up the students name and attendance information in a tabular form To update the attendance status or for taking the attendance for that particular date of that particular class which you have selected earlier, click the button named update attendance Put the status for all at once and click save changes    MANAGING EXAMS Manage exam marks From navigation go to > manage marks Select exam, class and subject and click manage marks for changing or updating marks That will bring up the form for updating the students marks for that particular subject Enter the marks and click update  MANAGING HELPFUL LINK From navigation go to Helpful Links Add / edit / delete  NEWS From navigation go to view news  View all the uploaded news  TODAY’S THOUGHT From navigation go to today’s thought  View all the uploaded today’s thought   HOLIDAY DATES From navigation go to holiday  View all the holiday with their respectives dates   ……………………………………………………………………………………………………. STUDENT PANEL DASHBOARD  ……………………………………………………………………………………………………. Total number of students, teachers, parents and attendance of students for that day at a glance, dashboard also holds a calendar for showing event  CLASS ROUTINE Form navigation go to class routine View the class routine of the logged in student   EXAM MARKS From navigation go to exam > manage marks Select exam and subject  See the mark for the selected exam in the selected subject  COMPUTER BASED TEST (CBT) From navigation go to online CBT See all the uploaded test for your class Attemtp the uploaded test View your results  STUDY MATERIALS From navigation go to study materials See all the uploaded study materials for your class Download the materials  ASSIGNMENT From navigation go to assignment  See all the uploaded assignments for your class Download the assignment   MEDIA From navigation go to media  See all the uploaded media for your class Download or watch media  NEWS From navigation go to view news  View all the uploaded news  TODAY’S THOUGHT From navigation go to today’s thought  View all the uploaded today’s thought   HOLIDAY DATES From navigation go to holiday  View all the holiday with their respectives dates  HELPFUL LINKS From navigation go to helpful links  View all the helpful links  HELP DESK From navigation go to help desk Submit or create help desk to the administrator  STUDY MATERIALS From navigation go to study material  See all the uploaded study material for your class Download the study material  PAYMENT / PAY WITH PAYPAL From navigation go to payment See the list of invoices Pay online with paypal for the unpaid invoices  COMMUNICATE WITH TEACHERS / ADMIN From navigation go to message Send new message to teachers and admin Get the sent message to you  ………………………………………………………………………………………………...... ACCOUNTANT  PANEL DASHBOARD ………………………………………………………………………………………………….. Total number of students, accountants, parents and attendance of student for that day at a glance. Dashboard also holds a calendar for showing events.  MANAGING PAYMENTS From navigation go to payment Add invoice and take manual payment multiple time under the same invoice If a payment is due, then an option will be there for taking the payment in the action button of the table that contains the list of all the invoices with the basic information. Edit or delete invoice  LOAN MANAGEMENT  From navigation go to loan application See all the applied loans Click on apply loan Fill forms to apply Wait for loan approval  MESSAGING From navigating go to message Send message to teachers and admin Get the message sent to you  NEWS From navigation go to view news  View all the uploaded news  TODAY’S THOUGHT From navigation go to today’s thought  View all the uploaded today’s thought   HOLIDAY DATES From navigation go to holiday  View all the holiday with their respectives dates  HELPFUL LINKS From navigation go to helpful links  View all the helpful links  HELP DESK From navigation go to help desk Submit or create help desk to the administrator  TRANSPORTATION From navigation go to transportation  View transportation available  ………………………………………………………………………………………………...... LIBRARIAN  PANEL DASHBOARD ………………………………………………………………………………………………….. Total number of students, librarian, parents and attendance of student for that day at a glance. Dashboard also holds a calendar for showing events.  MANAGING BOOKS From navigation go to library Add books  Edit or delete them  LOAN MANAGEMENT  From navigation go to loan application See all the applied loans Click on apply loan Fill forms to apply Wait for loan approval  MESSAGING From navigating go to message Send message to teachers and admin Get the message sent to you  NEWS From navigation go to view news  View all the uploaded news  TODAY’S THOUGHT From navigation go to today’s thought  View all the uploaded today’s thought   HOLIDAY DATES From navigation go to holiday  View all the holiday with their respectives dates  HELPFUL LINKS From navigation go to helpful links  View all the helpful links  HELP DESK From navigation go to help desk Submit or create help desk to the administrator  TRANSPORTATION From navigation go to transportation  View transportation available  ………………………………………………………………………………………………...... HOSTEL MANAGER  PANEL DASHBOARD ………………………………………………………………………………………………….. Total number of students, hostel managers, parents and attendance of student for that day at a glance. Dashboard also holds a calendar for showing events.  MANAGING DORMITORY From navigation go to dormitory Add / edit / delete  LOAN MANAGEMENT  From navigation go to loan application See all the applied loans Click on apply loan Fill forms to apply Wait for loan approval  MESSAGING From navigating go to message Send message to teachers and admin Get the message sent to you  NEWS From navigation go to view news  View all the uploaded news  TODAY’S THOUGHT From navigation go to today’s thought  View all the uploaded today’s thought   HOLIDAY DATES From navigation go to holiday  View all the holiday with their respectives dates  HELPFUL LINKS From navigation go to helpful links  View all the helpful links  HELP DESK From navigation go to help desk Submit or create help desk to the administrator  TRANSPORTATION From navigation go to transportation  View transportation available  ………………………………………………………………………………………………...... PARENT PANEL DASHBOARD ………………………………………………………………………………………………….. Total number of students, teachers, parents and attendance of student for that day at a glance. Dashboard also holds a calendar for showing events.  CHILDREN MARKS From navigation go to exam marks See the mark of your children individually One parent can have multiple children   PAYMENTS From navigation go to exam > payment View the invoices of your children and individually  Make payment via paypal online  CLASS ROUTINE From navigation go to class routine  Get the class routine for each of your child separately   MESSAGING From navigating go to message Send message to teachers and admin Get the message sent to you  NEWS From navigation go to view news  View all the uploaded news  TODAY’S THOUGHT From navigation go to today’s thought  View all the uploaded today’s thought   HOLIDAY DATES From navigation go to holiday  View all the holiday with their respectives dates  HELPFUL LINKS From navigation go to helpful links  View all the helpful links  HELP DESK From navigation go to help desk Submit or create help desk to the administrator
